so it seems the misssing thing with axis0 is that i have something like "retro-causality" for time. not a classical idea of this. actual causality of the past causing the present is not real in my model. the jk fuzz is more the "causal" force.

the future comes from that external compression. the expansion of the universe, gravity, time, space, entanglement, negative correlation entropy are all the same thing from a certain perspective. all so highly correlated that they all can never be seperated.

entropic monism is central. the qit engines are for unifying the foundations of physics and math, as one thing.

so we also ahve a=a iff a~b. this can be represented in many many many ways. and infers many many things. like cause/determinism iff probabilty/correlation. kinetic energy iff potential energy. the potential exists "first".

we also have FEP. and we can take how it works as more literal and mirroring the actual universe, rather than just how consciousness works. as in consciousness and how we percieve reality is a refleciton of the laws of reality and the fundamental qit engines. the qit engines are possibly the innate attractor basin of the universe. such that evolution, the varying forms of evolutionary selction, the laws of physics, perception, emotiions, consciiousness are reflecting the same thing.

FEP makes a prediction first. It doesn't have the senses take in data and then form that into perception. perception is a prediction of reality that is error corrected by the senses. our very sense of self sits in that predictive model. reality is probably far more aligned to this. our minds make stories of cause and effect. consciousness compresses the uncertain universe into causal stories, and the stories that work become culture that is ttransmistted through generations. the stories are like machines, and just technology that happened to have survived and worked. actual reality doesn't fit into such machine like processes. this is why traditional humans have to make walls between them and the world and other groups. so in their closed domain and psuedo walls, they can have semi determinism and control time. the poiint being that cause and effect is not fundmntal to actual physics nor the foundaitons of math.

so to process axis0 this has to be deeply explored.



i literally came up with entropic monism by applying hume to plato in the most literal way. i searched for something actually empirical. and i realzed that nothingness is more than nothing. and that the base material of all reality is the nothingness . the spacetime itself was the base material. physicists keep trying to break down matter more and more to get to the base material. by logic it is obviously spacetime itself. it is the least thing that it is still real and measurable, and yet is called No-thing. it can be measured. you can have more or less of it. it has properties. and it is actually growing. i made dark energy a central thing. most people are trying to factor dark energy out as an abberation. i made it the crown jewel. i went full hume and made the empirical universe prime. then i looked at what correlated. we had space time, dark energy, the arrow of time, and entropy. so correlated they can't be seperate. so i just workdd on visualizing a model where all of them are the same thing.

so space is literally entropy. and time is entropyh increasing. and since increasging entropy and spacce are one thing, therefore space increasing is time. thus space time as one thing. time and dark energy are then the same thing. there is an actual universal clock all frames can agree on indpenendent of how fast their relative clocks move.

then i realized dark matter was just another form of entropy. negative entropy if it could exist was dark matter. it was information. information can't be destroyed. i took a holographic physics model seriously. and applied to white and black holes. the singularties of these are entropy bubbles. two different kinds of entropy bubbles. postivie entropy is white holees and the big bang. and negative entropy black holes. i am not asking for this to be validated. i am building the system to prove it instead.

the universe was created from nothinngness. spacetime itself and entropy are rthe base material. and likely entanglment and gravity are also hyper correlated. the actual "computational universe" carriers. the information and the syncing of that information. and if entanglement entropy is the fundmental entropy. then space time is chiral. and t it is left OR right, and not both. and gravity is use expericiing first person pov mathematics itself made real. the live syncing of all information in the universe. the possibilities of things in the future are real everywhere, but imbedded in layers and layers of entropy down at any given point.

so the facts of gravity can all be accounted for by my model. and it makes the expansion of the universe and pull of gravity one thing. we are actually being pushed on. and tthat grravity is a property of spacetime and not matter, just like energy and mass are also. thus makeing gravity part of the e=mc^2 equation. and my docs explain this stuff.